when a man takes a wife and marries her
and it happens that she finds no favor
in his eyes because he has found some
uncleanness in her and he writes her a
certificate of divorce puts it in her
hand and sent her out of his house when
she has departed from his house and goes
and becomes another man's wife if the
latter husband detests her and writes
her a certificate of divorce puts it in
her hand and sends her out of his house
or if the latter husband dies who took
her as his wife then her former husband
who divorced her must not take her back
to be his wife after she has been
defiled for that is an abomination
before the Lord and you shall not bring
sin on the land which the Lord your God
is giving you as an inheritance
when a man has taken a new wife he shall
not go out to war or be charged with any
business he shall be free at home one
year and bring happiness to his wife
whom he has taken no man shall take the
lower or the upper millstone in pledge
for he takes ones living in pledge if a
man is found kidnapping any of his
brethren of the children of Israel and
mistreats him or sells human then that
kidnapper shall die and you shall put
away the evil from among you take heed
in an outbreak of leprosy that you
carefully observe and do according to
all that the priests the Levites shall
teach you just as I commanded them so
you shall be careful to do remember what
the Lord your God did to Miriam on the
way when you came out of Egypt
[Music]
when you lend your brother anything you
shall not go into his house to get his
pledge you shall stand outside and man
to whom ye land shall bring the pledge
out to you and if the man is poor you
shall not keep his pledge overnight you
shall in any case return the pledge to
him again when the sun goes down that he
may sleep in his own garment and bless
you and it shall be righteousness to you
before the Lord your God you shall not
oppress a hired servant who is poor and
needy whether one of your brethren or
one of the aliens was in your land
within your gates each day you shall
give him his wages and not let the Sun
go down on it for he is poor and has set
his heart on it lest he cry out against
you to the Lord and it be sin to you
father's shall not be put to death for
their children nor shall children be put
to death for their fathers a person
shall be put to death for his own sin
you shall not pervert justice do the
stranger or the fatherless nor take a
widow's garment as a pledge but you
shall remember that you were a slave in
Egypt and the Lord your God redeemed you
from there therefore I command you to do
this thing when you reap your harvest in
your field and forget a sheaf in the
field you shall not go back to get it it
shall be for the stranger the fatherless
and the widow that the Lord your God may
bless you in all the work of your hands
when you beat your olive trees you shall
not go over the boughs again it shall be
for the stranger the fatherless and the
widow when you gather the grapes of your
vineyard you shall not glean it
afterward
it shall be for the stranger the
fatherless and the widow and you shall
remember that you were a slave in the
land of Egypt therefore I command you to
do this thing